Merge ipfs-rust-conformance (#246)
rs-ipfs/rust-ipfs: conformance/README.md

# Conformance testing for Rust IPFS

This directory contains the scripts used to run interface conformance testing
for Rust IPFS. It uses `js-ipfsd-ctl`, `ipfs-http-client`, and
`interface-js-ipfs-core`. This code used to live at

> https://github.com/rs-ipfs/ipfs-rust-conformance but was integrated into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://github.com/rs-ipfs/ipfs-rust-conformance, but was integrated into
```

> https://github.com/rs-ipfs/rust-ipfs as working with multiple repositories got

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://github.com/rs-ipfs/rust-ipfs, as working with multiple repositories got
```

a bit tedious.

# Usage

Use `setup.sh` to do `npm install` and patch any of the dependencies:

```bash
$ cargo build -p ipfs-http
$ cd conformance
$ ./setup.sh
```

By default, there is a `http` symlink to `../target/debug/ipfs-http`. You can
change this to the release binary by modifying the symlink or use a custom
binary via the environment variable `IPFS_RUST_EXEC`. The default `rust.sh`

> wrapper will record all actions taken by the tests into a single large log

Reviewer: I think I've seen that you've added `$$` to the `.log` file, so it's no longer a single big file, no?

file. It's not recommended to trust it to keep all log lines especially for
tests with multiple processes.

```bash
$ IPFS_RUST_EXEC="$(pwd)/rust.sh" npm test
$ cat /tmp/rust.log
```

## Obtaining logs for tests with multiple processes

Patch the `rust.sh` as follows:

```diff
-./http "$@" 2>&1 | tee -a /tmp/rust.log || retval=$?
+./http "$@" 2>&1 | tee -a /tmp/rust.log.$$ || retval=$?
```

Now the `/tmp/rust.log` will contain only the "pointers" to other log files, for example:

```
>>>> new execution 24132 with args: daemon
<<<< exiting 24132 with 0
```

> Means there is now a log file `/tmp/rust.log.24132` for that invocation.

Author: ```suggestion
This means there is now a log file `/tmp/rust.log.24132` for that invocation.
```

Applied this already

Additionally, it helps to clear out the logs often with `rm -f /tmp/rust.log*`

> and only run the problematic tests `IPFS_RUST_EXEC="$(pwd)/rust.sh" npm test -- --grep 'should do foo'`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and only run selected tests `IPFS_RUST_EXEC="$(pwd)/rust.sh" npm test -- --grep 'should do foo'`.
```

If it's impossible to limit the number of tests to one with `--grep`, you can

> comment out the irrelevant tests in `test/index.js`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
comment out the undesired tests in `test/index.js`.
```

# Patch management

> We currently staying behind at `interface-ipfs-core@0.134.3` and the fixes we have upstreamed are also kept under `patches/`.

Author: ```suggestion
We currently staying behind at `interface-ipfs-core@0.137.0` and the fixes we have upstreamed are also kept under `patches/`.
```

Applied this already.

> We currently staying behind at `interface-ipfs-core@0.137.0` and the fixes we have upstreamed are also kept under `patches/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are currently pinned to `interface-ipfs-core@0.137.0` and the fixes we have upstreamed are kept under `patches/`.
```

To create a new patch:

1. Fork https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs
2. Clone locally
3. Checkout a new branch based on the tag for the `interface-ipfs-core` version

>    we are currently depending on (see package.json)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   we are currently depending on (see `package.json`)
```

4. Apply all of our patches from `patches/` with `git apply $ipfs_rust_conformance/patches/*`
5. Fix any new tests

> 6. When done, cherry pick your commits to a new branch based off the latest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. When done, cherry-pick your commits to a new branch based off the latest
```

>    main js-ipfs branch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   main `js-ipfs` branch
```

7. Submit PR
8. Squash your work, refer to your PR in the message
9. Remove existing `patches/`

> 9. Recreate the `patches/` with `git format-patch -o

Author: ```suggestion
10. Recreate the `patches/` with `git format-patch -o
```

Applied this already

   $ipfs-rust-conformance/patches $the_tag_you_based_your_work`

> Where above:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$variable` definitions:
```

 - `$ipfs_rust_conformance` points to your checkout of this repository

>  - `$the_tag_you_based_your_work` is the tag you started working on js-ipfs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `$the_tag_you_based_your_work` is the tag where you started working on js-ipfs
```

>    working copy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Previously this has been done by first working on a patch and then backporting
it, which might be easier. Luckily the tests are low traffic. If you need help
wrestling with git, don't hesitate to ask for guidance; this is simpler than

> it's step by step explanation looks like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
its step by step explanation looks like.
```

# Troubleshooting hangs

If the tests hang because of some deadlock on the `ipfs-http` side the tests
will print the final summary from `mocha` and then seem to wait forever. This
is true at least for the hangs seen so far, but you could run into a different
issues. Note that in addition to test timeouts the http client also has a
timeout, which can keep the `npm test` alive for less than ten seconds after
the summary has been printed.

What has worked previously is:

>  1. disable tests until you find the one which causes the hang

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 1. keep disabling some tests until you find the one which causes the hang
```

 2. rerun tests using the `rust.sh` wrapper which gives you logs at `/tmp/rust.log`
 3. continue debugging over at `ipfs-http`

> "Disable tests" as in, comment tests out or run them with `IPFS_RUST_EXEC=...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To disable a test means to comment it out or exclude it from `IPFS_RUST_EXEC=...
```

> npm test -- --grep 'should XYZ'`. You should get to a single running test which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npm test -- --grep '<suspected test>'`. You should get to a single running test which
```

hangs. If the test does a lot, you can refactor that into a smaller one which
will only cause the hang and nothing else.

The use of `rust.sh` wrapper is critical as it'll give you the logging output.

> If the test has multiple running instances you might be better of separating

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the test has multiple running instances you might be better off separating
```

logs into files per invocation of `rust.sh` by appending `.$$` to the log files
name, which will expand to the process id of the shell running the script.

> "Continue debugging" is a more tricky one. What has worked previously is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To "continue debugging" is more tricky. What has worked previously is:
```

>  1. attaching a `gdb` to a running process in the case of livelocks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 1. attaching a `gdb` to a running process in case of live locks
```

>  2. adding debugging in the case of "everything stalled"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 2. adding debugging in case everything stalls
```

> (I might be using the term wrong here) Livelocks happen when a task (running on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Livelocks (I might be using a wrong term here) happen when a task (running on
```

either tokio or async-std) never returns from [`std::future::Future::poll`] but
stays busy all of the time. You can spot these by seeing a core being
utilitized by `ipfs-http` constantly. These are easy to track down by:

 1. attach `gdb -p $process_id path/to/your/ipfs-http`

>  2. find the interesting thread `info threads` or by looking at [threads stacktraces]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 2. find the interesting thread with `info threads` or by looking at [thread's stack traces]
```

> In the "everything stalled" case a [`std::future::Future::poll`] has completed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the "everything stalled" case, a [`std::future::Future::poll`] has completed
```

> with `Poll::Pending` without waking up the task for a new poll. These are quite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with `Poll::Pending` without waking up the task for a new poll. These mistakes are quite
```

> easy mistakes to made. Good indications of such issues:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simple to make. Good indications of such issues:
```

 * custom `poll` methods without the [`std::task::Context`] parameter: these

>    methods will never be able to schedule wakeups

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   methods will never be able to schedule wake-ups
```

 * polling some nested "pollable" thing and returning `Poll::Pending` following

>    nested returning `Poll::Ready(_)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the nested poll returning `Poll::Ready(_)`
```

>    * if the inner "pollable" didn't return `Poll::Pending` it means it had

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * if the inner "pollable" didn't return `Poll::Pending`, it means it had
```

     "more values to bubble up"
   * see this hastly written issue
     https://github.com/libp2p/rust-libp2p/issues/1516 and the linked commit(s)
 * custom [`std::future::Future`] which cannot return errors on drop like with

>    the early SubscriptionFuture (see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the early `SubscriptionFuture` (see
```

   https://github.com/ipfs-rust/rust-ipfs/pull/130)

[`why-is-node-running`]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/why-is-node-running
[`std::future::Future::poll`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/future/trait.Future.html#tymethod.poll

> [threads stacktraces]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/18391808/how-do-i-get-the-backtrace-for-all-the-threads-in-gdb

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[threads' stack traces]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/18391808/how-do-i-get-the-backtrace-for-all-the-threads-in-gdb
```

# License

> Same as repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Same as the repository.
```
